chicken parmigiana is one of the most
popular menu items in Italian American
restaurants it's really easy to make it
home and today I'm gonna show you how
and the key to it for me for the whole
thing is making sure you have a nice
uniform chicken breast which means we're
gonna have to use our meat mallet and
flatten this one out because you can see
that the way a chicken breast is
naturally shaped is a little thicker on
one side and sort of tapers down at
another side chicken parmesan
it's gonna cook evenly once we get this
all in the same thickness but it's also
going to cook quickly which is key also
so you get that nice crispy crust so I'm
just got I've got triple layer of
plastic wrap here you can use a gallon
bag at home that's what I do just make
sure you've got some good protection I'm
gonna use a flat side of my meat mallet
and the idea here is to do sort of a
sweeping motion so as you come down just
sort of pull away from you the idea is
not to come straight down on the meat
but hit it and sort of pull away from
you okay and I use my hand here just to
keep the the plastic wrap steady and the
plastic wrap just keeps the chicken from
sticking and the idea obviously you've
got the thinner side so you want to
start by pounding the thicker side and
again sort of a pulling motion and
you'll see that after a couple of good
whacks it just starts to move with the
mallet and I'm looking for about a
quarter of an inch again nice
consistency is going to be the key to
your success here okay so I've got that
pounded and then you can see that's what
it looks like a nice even chicken breast
great a raw chicken always want to be
careful so I'm using tongs okay just to
handle the raw chicken and I'll use a
completely different set of tongs once I
cook it but I'm gonna get rid of my
plastic wrap and clear my board okay and
then I'm gonna show you the standard
breading procedure okay
so I have some all-purpose flour of a
cup of that I have three eggs here that
I've really taken my time and whisk them
very very well you want to make sure
they're completely broken up and sort of
foamy on top of that we are gonna get
good coverage and then I have some
Italian seasoned breadcrumbs that I also
added some more Parmesan Reggiano to
just to bump that flavour so what I'm
gonna do is I'm gonna season the chicken
breast with some sea salt and fresh
cracked pepper all right we're just
building layers of flavor here so
obviously we want to make sure this
chicken tastes good before we get it
into the breading and then I've got a
pair of tongs here it makes the job a
little cleaner
right into the flower and the idea here
is to get a nice even coat of everything
on top of the chicken breast you want to
make sure that there's no spot of your
chicken breast that's not covered with
flour because we're building a seal here
and we're establishing a crust and what
we want is to not press it in we just
want to make sure it's nicely even
coated and if you just get it coated
very simply and very easily without
trying to get too much on there it's
gonna be light as a snowflake and that's
kind of what you want you want it to be
really really crispy on the outside and
you don't want that breading caked on so
I just want to make sure even coat all
the way through you know you'll see some
people really press it down I don't like
to do that I like to just flip it a
couple of times
cover the areas that are still uncovered
with all three of these ingredients and
there you go you got a perfectly breaded
chicken breast right there okay so we're
just gonna do that with all four of
these chicken breasts and then we're
gonna saute them in a pan to golden
brown and crispy all right so I've got
my pan here preheated medium-high I
started with about a half a cup of pure
olive oil I want to do these in batches
the idea here is to not overcrowd the
pan so we get nice even browning again
we wanted to pound the chicken so it's
nice even thickness we want to get nice
even browning as well the crust so
chicken parmesan is key
so I've already browned too I'm just
gonna finish with these last two let the
oil get them nice and brown around the
outside just a couple of minutes on each
side till they're nice and golden brown
and then we want them to be at 165
degrees for a finished temperature all
right so it's been a couple of minutes I
just want to go ahead and check them
yeah that's beautiful got that beautiful
sort of paper bag Brown that we're
looking for you can see the edges get a
little crispier than the middle so you
get that great textural difference gonna
be another couple of minutes on this
side and we're gonna build them get them
in the oven alright so it's been a
couple minutes on this side before I
remove them from the pan I just want to
get right into the thickest part and
again remember these are very evenly
pounded so the thickest part could be
any of it but I still like to go in the
middle just to make sure I'm getting an
accurate temperature you know it's
chicken so we're looking for 165 degrees
you know another thing I like about you
know chicken cutlets or breaded cutlets
in general is because we're cooking them
so quickly they're gonna still be nice
and moist
then I'm just gonna remove these two
paper towel just to drain a little bit
of that excess oil off all right and now
I've got a clean set of tongs okay cuz
this chicken is already cooked we've hit
our temperature and I'm gonna move it
over to my cookie sheet that I have
lined with some parchment paper I always
think it's a great idea to line any tray
that I'm using for baking with parchment
paper really makes cleanup a lot easier
okay I'll just go ahead now that these
have had a chance to drain again same
idea here we didn't overcrowd the pan we
were browning them I don't want to
overcrowd the pan when I'm baking them
as well so I can just go ahead and get
rid of that okay and now this is the fun
part and this is what everybody always
likes about chicken parmesan you've got
some delicious seasoned tomato sauce
here and I'm just gonna go ahead and
parse out over these chicken breasts and
you want to be again.we I've talked
about layering for this whole recipe you
don't want to have too much of anything
you want to have just enough so you get
a little bite of sauce crispy chicken
and cheese in every single bite that's
that's the idea
so I'll just spread that out and I'll
just going to take the back of my spoon
and sort of push it out almost to the
edge so perfect we've got that I've got
a little bit of whole milk mozzarella
cheese same idea as the sauce now this
cheese is gonna melt and it's gonna
spread out a little bit as it melts so I
try to keep it a little bit more towards
the center just to accommodate for that
but the good news is when it melts off
the side to get those beautiful crispy
brown bits of cheese I sort of stick to
the pan I always like to eat those all
right and again chicken parmesan I want
to Gilda Lily just a little bit here
I've got a little more Parmesan Reggiano
remember I put that in the seasoned
breadcrumbs
during the breading process and I want
to just take a little bit more as a nice
sort of nutty and salty quality to the
mozzarella which is going to get all
warm and soft and gooey there you go
chicken parmesan gonna put it in the
oven for just a few minutes get that
cheese melted get that sauce hot and
we're gonna be ready to go alright
that's about eight minutes in the oven
and that's exactly what I'm looking for
cheese is all soft and gooey sauce is
hot classically I'll always serve this
with just a nice simple pasta simple
tomato sauce
you know and this is perfect right there
textbook classic chicken parmesan
everybody in your family is gonna like
it it's a great meal and the leftovers
taste just as good the next day to try
it at home